README.md, before:

# SVG Loader
[![NPM](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/external-svg-loader.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/external-svg-loader)
![minified size](http://img.badgesize.io/shubhamjain/svg-loader/master/svg-loader.min.js?label=minified%20size&v=10) ![gzip size](http://img.badgesize.io/shubhamjain/svg-loader/master/svg-loader.min.js?compression=gzip&v=10)

SVGs from an external source can be rendered with `<img>` tags, but this has multiple drawbacks: you can't customize the fill or stroke colors, use CSS variables, or use focus/hover states.

SVG Loader is a simple JS library that fetches SVGs using XHR and injects the SVG code in the tag's place. This lets you use externally stored SVGs (e.g, on CDN) just like inline SVGs.

It's super-tiny, works with all frameworks, requires no additional code except the initial script load, and has minimal to no impact on performance.

[**Demo →**](https://codepen.io/shubhamjainco/pen/rNyBVmY)

## How to Use?
SVG Loader is designed to be plug and play. Hence, all you need to is to include the loader JS anywhere in your code, and then start using the code like this:

### Download and Include

```html
<!-- 
    Include this script anywhere in your code, preferably <HEAD> so
    icons can be fetched faster.
-->
<script type="text/javascript" src="svg-loader.min.js" async></script>

<!-- Use an external SVG -->
<svg
  data-src="https://unpkg.com/@mdi/svg@5.9.55/svg/star.svg"
  width="50"
  height="50"
  fill="red"></svg>
<svg
  data-src="https://unpkg.com/@mdi/svg@5.9.55/svg/heart.svg"
  width="50"
  height="50"
  fill="red"></svg>

<svg
  data-src="https://unpkg.com/@mdi/svg@5.9.55/svg/cog.svg"
  width="50"
  height="50"
  fill="currentColor"
  style="color: purple;"></svg>
```

[**See Here →**](https://codepen.io/shubhamjainco/pen/jOBEgPY)

**Note**: Because SVG Loader fetches file using XHRs, it's limited by CORS policies of the browser. 
So you need to ensure that correct `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` headers are sent with the file being served or that the files are hosted on your own domain. 


### Or, use from the npm package
The library is framework/platform agnostic. You should be able to use it in React, Vue.js and others
as long as you're using the correct attributes.


```
npm install external-svg-loader
```

Then, in your app, require/import `external-svg-loader` anywhere. Here's an example:

```jsx
import React from "react";
import ReactDOM from "react-dom";

import "external-svg-loader";

class App extends React.Component {
  render() {
    return (
      <svg
        data-src="https://s2.svgbox.net/materialui.svg?ic=mail"
        fill="currentColor"
        width="50px"
        height="50px"
        style={{
          color: "red"
        }}
      />
    );
  }
}

ReactDOM.render(<App />, document.getElementById("container"));
```

[**See Here →**](https://codesandbox.io/s/react-playground-forked-x7w1l?file=/index.js)

### Or, use a CDN
SVG loader can also be included via unpkg CDN. Example:

```html
<script
    type="text/javascript"
    src="https://unpkg.com/external-svg-loader@latest/svg-loader.min.js"
    async></script>
```

## Configuration

### 1. Disable/Modify Caching
By default, the XHR response is cached for 30 days, so that any subsequent loads are instantenous. You can disable this behavior by passing `data-cache="disabled"`. 

You can destroy the currently stored cache by calling:

```js
SVGLoader.destroyCache();
```

You can also modify the caching period by passing number of seconds. Example:

#### Cache for a week
```html
<svg
  data-src="https://unpkg.com/@mdi/svg@5.9.55/svg/heart.svg"
  data-cache="604800"
  width="50"
  height="50"></svg>
```

#### Cache for a six hours
```html
<svg
  data-src="https://unpkg.com/@mdi/svg@5.9.55/svg/heart.svg"
  data-cache="21600"
  width="50"
  height="50"></svg>
```

#### Disable Caching
```html
<svg
  data-src="https://unpkg.com/@mdi/svg@5.9.55/svg/heart.svg"
  data-cache="disabled"
  width="50"
  height="50"></svg>
```

### 2. Enable Javascript
SVG format supports scripting. However, for security reasons, svg-loader will strip all JS code before injecting the SVG file.
You can enable it by: 

```html
<svg
  data-src="https://unpkg.com/@mdi/svg@5.9.55/svg/heart.svg"
  data-js="enabled"
  onclick="alert('clicked')"
  width="50"
  height="50"
  fill="red"></svg>
```

### 3. Disable Unique IDs, Styling
To prevent conflicts between conflicting identifiers of different SVGs, svg-loader scopes the identifiers and styling rules by adding prefixes. 

You can disable this behavior by:

#### Disable Unique IDs

```html
<svg
  data-src="https://unpkg.com/@mdi/svg@5.9.55/svg/heart.svg"
  data-unique-ids="disabled"
  width="50"
  height="50"
  fill="red"></svg>
```

#### Disable CSS Scoping

```html
<svg
  data-src="https://unpkg.com/@mdi/svg@5.9.55/svg/heart.svg"
  data-css-scoping="disabled"
  width="50"
  height="50"
  fill="red"></svg>
```

## Lazy Loading
You can also lazy load icons by using `data-loading=lazy`. This will make icon not load until it's about to enter the viewport. For lazy loading, `external-svg-loader` uses [Intersection Observer API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Intersection_Observer_API).

```html
<svg
  data-src="https://unpkg.com/@mdi/svg@5.9.55/svg/heart.svg"
  data-loading="lazy"
  width="50"
  height="50"></svg>
```

## Event
When the SVG has been loaded an event `iconload` is triggered. This can be used to get the references to the loaded SVG element and do some further processing. You can also use the `oniconload` inline function. 

### Using `oniconload` inline function
```html
<svg
  data-src="https://unpkg.com/@mdi/svg@5.9.55/svg/cog.svg"
  oniconload="console.log('Icon loaded', this)"></svg>
```

### Using addEventListener
```html
<svg data-src="https://unpkg.com/@mdi/svg@5.9.55/svg/cog.svg"></svg>

<script>
  window.addEventListener('iconload', (e) => {
      if (e.target.id === 'iconload') {
        console.log('Icon loaded', e.target);
      }
  });
</script>
```

### Using the `iconloaderror` event
When an error occurs during loading of the SVG file, an `iconloaderror` event is triggered, passing the error message as the event's `detail`.

```html
<svg data-src="https://unpkg.com/@mdi/svg@5.9.55/svg/this-svg-does-not-exist.svg"></svg>

<script>
  window.addEventListener('iconloaderror', (e) => {
    console.error('Failed to load SVG:', e.detail);
  });
</script>
```

### Using Events in React
React doesn't support custom events out of the box. To circumvent this limitation, you can use [refs](https://reactjs.org/docs/refs-and-the-dom.html).

```jsx
class MyApp extends React.Component {
  constructor(props) {
    super(props);
    this.ref = React.createRef()
  }
  render() {
    return (<svg data-src="https://unpkg.com/@mdi/svg@5.9.55/svg/cog.svg" ref={this.ref}></svg>);
  }
  componentDidMount() {
    this.ref.current.addEventListener('iconload', () => {
      console.log("Icon Loaded", this.ref.current)
    });
    this.ref.current.addEventListener('iconloaderror', (e) => {
      console.error('Failed to load SVG:', e.detail);
    });
  }
}
```

## LICENSE
MIT

Commit message:

Add support for oniconloaderror inline function

README.md, after:

# SVG Loader
[![NPM](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/external-svg-loader.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/external-svg-loader)
![minified size](http://img.badgesize.io/shubhamjain/svg-loader/master/svg-loader.min.js?label=minified%20size&v=10) ![gzip size](http://img.badgesize.io/shubhamjain/svg-loader/master/svg-loader.min.js?compression=gzip&v=10)

SVGs from an external source can be rendered with `<img>` tags, but this has multiple drawbacks: you can't customize the fill or stroke colors, use CSS variables, or use focus/hover states.

SVG Loader is a simple JS library that fetches SVGs using XHR and injects the SVG code in the tag's place. This lets you use externally stored SVGs (e.g, on CDN) just like inline SVGs.

It's super-tiny, works with all frameworks, requires no additional code except the initial script load, and has minimal to no impact on performance.

[**Demo →**](https://codepen.io/shubhamjainco/pen/rNyBVmY)

## How to Use?
SVG Loader is designed to be plug and play. Hence, all you need to is to include the loader JS anywhere in your code, and then start using the code like this:

### Download and Include

```html
<!-- 
    Include this script anywhere in your code, preferably <HEAD> so
    icons can be fetched faster.
-->
<script type="text/javascript" src="svg-loader.min.js" async></script>

<!-- Use an external SVG -->
<svg
  data-src="https://unpkg.com/@mdi/svg@5.9.55/svg/star.svg"
  width="50"
  height="50"
  fill="red"></svg>
<svg
  data-src="https://unpkg.com/@mdi/svg@5.9.55/svg/heart.svg"
  width="50"
  height="50"
  fill="red"></svg>

<svg
  data-src="https://unpkg.com/@mdi/svg@5.9.55/svg/cog.svg"
  width="50"
  height="50"
  fill="currentColor"
  style="color: purple;"></svg>
```

[**See Here →**](https://codepen.io/shubhamjainco/pen/jOBEgPY)

**Note**: Because SVG Loader fetches file using XHRs, it's limited by CORS policies of the browser. 
So you need to ensure that correct `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` headers are sent with the file being served or that the files are hosted on your own domain. 


### Or, use from the npm package
The library is framework/platform agnostic. You should be able to use it in React, Vue.js and others
as long as you're using the correct attributes.


```
npm install external-svg-loader
```

Then, in your app, require/import `external-svg-loader` anywhere. Here's an example:

```jsx
import React from "react";
import ReactDOM from "react-dom";

import "external-svg-loader";

class App extends React.Component {
  render() {
    return (
      <svg
        data-src="https://s2.svgbox.net/materialui.svg?ic=mail"
        fill="currentColor"
        width="50px"
        height="50px"
        style={{
          color: "red"
        }}
      />
    );
  }
}

ReactDOM.render(<App />, document.getElementById("container"));
```

[**See Here →**](https://codesandbox.io/s/react-playground-forked-x7w1l?file=/index.js)

### Or, use a CDN
SVG loader can also be included via unpkg CDN. Example:

```html
<script
    type="text/javascript"
    src="https://unpkg.com/external-svg-loader@latest/svg-loader.min.js"
    async></script>
```

## Configuration

### 1. Disable/Modify Caching
By default, the XHR response is cached for 30 days, so that any subsequent loads are instantenous. You can disable this behavior by passing `data-cache="disabled"`. 

You can destroy the currently stored cache by calling:

```js
SVGLoader.destroyCache();
```

You can also modify the caching period by passing number of seconds. Example:

#### Cache for a week
```html
<svg
  data-src="https://unpkg.com/@mdi/svg@5.9.55/svg/heart.svg"
  data-cache="604800"
  width="50"
  height="50"></svg>
```

#### Cache for a six hours
```html
<svg
  data-src="https://unpkg.com/@mdi/svg@5.9.55/svg/heart.svg"
  data-cache="21600"
  width="50"
  height="50"></svg>
```

#### Disable Caching
```html
<svg
  data-src="https://unpkg.com/@mdi/svg@5.9.55/svg/heart.svg"
  data-cache="disabled"
  width="50"
  height="50"></svg>
```

### 2. Enable Javascript
SVG format supports scripting. However, for security reasons, svg-loader will strip all JS code before injecting the SVG file.
You can enable it by: 

```html
<svg
  data-src="https://unpkg.com/@mdi/svg@5.9.55/svg/heart.svg"
  data-js="enabled"
  onclick="alert('clicked')"
  width="50"
  height="50"
  fill="red"></svg>
```

### 3. Disable Unique IDs, Styling
To prevent conflicts between conflicting identifiers of different SVGs, svg-loader scopes the identifiers and styling rules by adding prefixes. 

You can disable this behavior by:

#### Disable Unique IDs

```html
<svg
  data-src="https://unpkg.com/@mdi/svg@5.9.55/svg/heart.svg"
  data-unique-ids="disabled"
  width="50"
  height="50"
  fill="red"></svg>
```

#### Disable CSS Scoping

```html
<svg
  data-src="https://unpkg.com/@mdi/svg@5.9.55/svg/heart.svg"
  data-css-scoping="disabled"
  width="50"
  height="50"
  fill="red"></svg>
```

## Lazy Loading
You can also lazy load icons by using `data-loading=lazy`. This will make icon not load until it's about to enter the viewport. For lazy loading, `external-svg-loader` uses [Intersection Observer API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Intersection_Observer_API).

```html
<svg
  data-src="https://unpkg.com/@mdi/svg@5.9.55/svg/heart.svg"
  data-loading="lazy"
  width="50"
  height="50"></svg>
```

## Event
When the SVG has been loaded an event `iconload` is triggered. This can be used to get the references to the loaded SVG element and do some further processing. You can also use the `oniconload` inline function. 

### Using `oniconload` inline function
```html
<svg
  data-src="https://unpkg.com/@mdi/svg@5.9.55/svg/cog.svg"
  oniconload="console.log('Icon loaded', this)"></svg>
```

### Using addEventListener
```html
<svg data-src="https://unpkg.com/@mdi/svg@5.9.55/svg/cog.svg"></svg>

<script>
  window.addEventListener('iconload', (e) => {
      if (e.target.id === 'iconload') {
        console.log('Icon loaded', e.target);
      }
  });
</script>
```

### Using the `iconloaderror` event
When an error occurs during loading of the SVG file, an `iconloaderror` event is triggered, passing the error message as the event's `detail`.

```html
<svg data-src="https://unpkg.com/@mdi/svg@5.9.55/svg/this-svg-does-not-exist.svg"></svg>

<script>
  window.addEventListener('iconloaderror', (e) => {
    console.error('Failed to load SVG:', e.detail);
  });
</script>
```

Similarly to the `iconload` event, `iconloaderror` can also be used with an inline function, which will have access to an `error` argument (the `Error` object that was thrown):
```html
<svg
  data-src="https://unpkg.com/@mdi/svg@5.9.55/svg/cog.svg"
  oniconloaderror="console.log('Error loading SVG:', error.toString())"></svg>
```

### Using Events in React
React doesn't support custom events out of the box. To circumvent this limitation, you can use [refs](https://reactjs.org/docs/refs-and-the-dom.html).

```jsx
class MyApp extends React.Component {
  constructor(props) {
    super(props);
    this.ref = React.createRef()
  }
  render() {
    return (<svg data-src="https://unpkg.com/@mdi/svg@5.9.55/svg/cog.svg" ref={this.ref}></svg>);
  }
  componentDidMount() {
    this.ref.current.addEventListener('iconload', () => {
      console.log("Icon Loaded", this.ref.current)
    });
    this.ref.current.addEventListener('iconloaderror', (e) => {
      console.error('Failed to load SVG:', e.detail);
    });
  }
}
```

## LICENSE
MIT
